>> Hello.
I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill,
and I'd like to welcome you
to Living in Balance.
I'm excited about today's
show, "Oh, the Energy."
In fact, it's about
energy, your energy,
and it's called Energy Medicine.
We'll talk about the
chakras, the meridians,
even about guardians,
our spirit guardians.
We're going to talk
about a lot of fun things
and have demonstrations on how
you can bring yourself back
into balance or how you
can energize yourself.
Come join us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The author is Donna Eden, and
the book is "Energy Medicine."
And I absolutely loved it.
It's one of those that you
can use as a reference, that
can remind you of what you
might need to do to come back
into balance, even
what you can do
to stop from getting that cold.
So I am so pleased today
to welcome Donna Eden.
Welcome.
>> Oh, thank you.
>> We also saw that you have a
video, and I watched the video.
And your energy was terrific.
I thought, wow, you have
chosen the right topic.
[LAUGHS]
So tell us a little bit
about the subtle energies.
We have a whole list
of names for it.
But what are we talking
about when you're
talking about our energy?
>> Well, energy is like the
infrastructure of your body.
And everything is energy also.
It's like your
body is not solid.
But we are made up of lattice
works of force fields,
and you can affect
those force fields.
And all around the world,
people use energy medicine--
call it different things--
but they use energy medicine
as their healing techniques.
It's not as accessible
to Westerners.
And that's what I
have a passion about
is to make energy medicine
accessible and tangible
to everyone because
we gain everything
to know how to heal ourselves.
>> Well, it's fascinating.
We do have a list of all
the different names and all
the different cultures, and
I was very much surprised.
They're called subtle energies,
but it's "chi" in Chinese.
We have "prana," and
we have the "yesod."
The Native Americans
have a name for it.
It's as if every culture has a
name for the subtle energies.
But I was very much
surprised, you ended with,
in the Western
culture, Holy Spirit
was our life force,
our energy, and that
was amazing to me, yeah.
>> Oh, well, I see
energy as the life force.
And this is not something
I normally talk about
on television, but I
do see energy as of God
and whatever you call that.
It's, like, there is no way
you can work in energy medicine
without tapping
into the spiritual.
And you know that this is
something very powerful
and something miraculous
that can change our lives
and get our health back.
>> Yes, and that's what
you've devoted your life to.
And you have been doing
this for many years.
>> Yes.
>> And you're what I
would call an empath.
Now you're intuitive.
You have-- you feel
other people's energy,
and you can know
where they're having
issues or problems
in their body because
of the shift in the energies.
>> Yes, yes.
I think this is the only natural
work I could have found myself
on this particular path.
First of all, I got myself well.
And, yes, I always felt energy.
I always saw it.
And so when I found myself very
sick and getting myself well,
it was just natural that I
wanted to then go out and show
other people how to
move their energy
and instantly saw that we are
far more empowered than most
people know.
>> Well, I was fascinated by
your story because so many
people do find their gift
to share after they've been
through a disease or, you
know, some sort of trauma.
And you decided to
take some coursework,
and you got immediately into an
advanced course accidentally--
>> Yes, that's right.
>> In Applied Kinesiology, so
that's part of what you do.
>> Yes.
>> But it really is
all about energy.
>> It's all about energy.
And over the years,
I have seen energy
look different, seem
different, flow differently,
depending on the system.
And then often, because I've
been teaching for the last 20
years all around the
world, sometimes I will go
into a culture, and
they'll say, oh,
you're talking about "da-da-da."
They've got a different name.
>> Well, let's talk
about the chakras.
And we have a couple
visuals of the chakras.
And some people still
don't know what those are.
So do you want to explain to
us what we have in these, like,
energy wheels?
>> All right.
>> Here's a graphic you can
see that just shows the colors.
>> Yes, the picture shows the
seven main chakras in the body.
And I would like to
say also that, even
though that gave color, I
see color as a little bit
different.
I see that our chakras
are like our blueprint,
and our energy is as
unique as a thumbprint.
So our colors are different,
and people will often
expect to have those colors
that will show up in a book.
And, no, it depends on your
story, your life, your health,
your vitality, your secrets,
everything that's in you.
So a chakra is both
very spiritual,
but it's very practical
to work with the chakra.
>> Well, we have another graphic
of the chakras that actually
shows each one are tied into one
of the major glands and systems
in the body, too.
And so, therefore,
that energy center
is affected by the
health or disease
that you would have with that
particular part of the body
or organ?
>> Yes, that's exactly right.
Chakras govern the
endocrine system.
So when you have ups
and downs in your moods,
you can know your chakras
are being affected.
If you have issues in
your life, for instance,
maybe power issues
are your issue,
that's your third chakra.
If you are someone who is
still extremely playful
and can let go and
have fun, you're
somebody who is very strong
in your second chakra.
So each chakra governs a
particular way of being,
and the different
organs in that area
are affected by your chakra.
And it goes all the way
up through your body
to the top of your head.
>> So then we can also look
then at that as a particular
culture's approach, but
we've been able to use that
in Western philosophy.
But we also look at
the ancient Chinese
because you work a lot
with the meridians.
>> Yes, I do.
>> Yes, OK.
>> And meridians-- whereas
chakras spin in a wheel
or a vortex, meridians stream.
They are like energy pathways
or highways, and they pump--
they give energy to
the blood and the lymph
to pump it through your body
and to get life and vitality
to all your cells.
And they help toxins
move out of your body.
>> Well, as I was reading
your book, I thought--
that's why I said, it really
is a good reference book--
because I should be
knowledgeable about,
for example, the heart meridian
or the kidney meridian if I had
an issue with that.
And I could actually work with
the flow of my own personal chi
if I knew what line that was.
So I could like massage up
one side of the body and do--
>> Absolutely.
For instance, I'll just
use myself as an example.
I have a vulnerability
in spleen meridian,
which I have made stronger
and stronger over the years.
And I've made it strong by not
only tracing that meridian,
but tracing it backwards
to empty some of the energy
and then bringing it
forward three times.
And it got stronger
and stronger.
In fact, that was
the beginning of my
turning my health around, just
focusing on that one meridian.
>> Well, and when we think
about our immune system,
the lymphatic system, there
are things that we need to know
that we could just keep
ourselves healthier all
the time if we just knew
more about our bodies.
>> Yes, yes.
>> But the patterns, the
energy flow in the body.
>> Yes.
Well, there's several things.
I want to say that
many of the things
that I'm going to
show you right now,
many are very
instinctual to people.
>> Yes.
>> And people do them
all the time and say, oh,
I do that all the time.
One of them, I always think,
is when people get stressed,
they tend to throw their
hand up to their forehead.
I call these the
"Oh, my god" points.
Because you go, "Oh, my god."
Well, what's happening
when you get stressed,
you lose blood from
your forebrain.
It goes into your body for
the fight or flight response.
So right at the time
when you want your mind
to work the best, the
clearest, it's checked out.
The blood is leaving
your forebrain.
That's why you
often can't think.
But if you put your
hand to your forebrain
and hold it long
enough, you will
begin to feel the blood coming
back up into your forebrain.
And you can-- some people will
put the pads of both fingers.
Sometimes you'll see people
with one hand on front, one hand
on back.
Yes, and now where
you instinctually
did it on the side is
you're affecting triple
warmer and gallbladder, OK?
Triple warmer is really
mega fight or flight.
>> OK.
Now this is the extreme, right?
OK.
>> Yes, that's the extreme.
But you affect your energies
by placing your hands
on your head like that.
>> Yes.
And, you know, another
fascinating thing you said
was where, if you have, for
example, a point that's really
tender, you need to
massage that because that's
another line or a point
where energy is blocked.
>> That's exactly right.
So without anybody
energy testing you,
you can know-- begin
to know your own body
by just feeling
around on your body
and seeing where you're hurt.
There's a point somewhere
that you can massage.
And you will start
cleaning it up,
and you will begin to feel
that you've got more vitality.
>> Well, I kind of laughed
as I was reading it, too.
I thought, you know, I should
never be sitting still.
Like, if I'm watching television
or if I'm reading or whatever,
I should be rubbing
some part of my body.
I should be massaging
something that would be helpful
to me, depending on what my
situation is, even if it's just
to come back to balance
or come back to energy.
>> And you know you can make
it like automatic pilot.
If you learn it and get
it into your habit field,
it can be like
brushing your teeth.
I have people take
like the chart
in my book of the
lymphatics and put it up
on your bathroom mirror.
And just note where on
your body you're hurting
and just make it
like second nature
to begin to feel these points
and seeing where you're hurt.
>> Well, you said we're
going to energy test.
We can show that in
our next segment,
and also we're going to see
some kind of fun things.
So if you'll stay tuned,
we'll be right back
with Donna Eden and
Energy Medicine.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If you are just joining us,
I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill.
And my guest today in this
program is Donna Eden,
and the subject is
Energy Medicine.
And we're going to
give you techniques
that you can do that will
bring you back into balance,
will energize you, if need
be, or help you to heal.
So what we're going
to talk about again,
we're just going to mention the
meridians acupressure points,
OK?
Now those are the same.
The acupressure points
are along the meridian.
>> That's right.
>> Right, OK.
>> Yes.
>> So we can--
if we learn those
points, we'll know
those points that will
help us to allow the energy
to flow again.
>> Yes, and you don't
have to memorize them.
You can make this
as easy as possible.
But you can learn
the meridian lines,
and you actually don't even have
to go to absolute acupuncture
points.
If you just start tracing
along the meridian lines
or massaging or tapping, you're
going to affect that energy.
>> Well, another thing
that she had said, too,
and a little point
is in our ears.
And one of the
techniques you said
is start your day with
a massage of the ears.
And if we looked at the
example of the ear diagram,
you would be then
massaging your whole body.
>> That's right.
>> By massaging your ears.
You actually don't have to know
what all of those points mean.
But if you pull your ears out
in the morning or some time
of the day when you feel like
you're kind of losing it,
you know, pull your ears out
and fold your ears forward,
it empties a lot of the
energy that you've collected.
And so it's an excellent thing.
It's a good wake-up way
in the morning, too.
>> You have so many
wonderful techniques.
We do have a tape that
you show, though, how
you can tell if you need it.
Do you want to tell us a little
bit about energy testing?
That's a major part of your
energy medicine, isn't it?
>> Yes, it is.
I like to teach energy testing.
And it's both an
art and a science
because you've got to
get the feel of it.
But when you do, it's a
reliable biofeedback system.
And you can test all of the
muscles in the whole body,
but you really need to only
test-- use one test to test
how the energy is flowing.
So, let's see--
[CHUCKLES]
>> Perhaps we should just--
let's do the demonstration.
They can see how you test.
Then we can talk
about all the ways
you can apply it with
everything from herbs to food
to anything in your environment.
So let's have a demonstration.
This was kind of fun.
>> OK.
>> All right.
Now I'd like to show you
just how electromagnetic
your energies are and
all of our energies are.
I'm going to energy test you by
placing your arm up like this.
Now I want you to push
up as I push down.
All right, nice and strong.
Now I'm going to show you
just how I, or anyone, can
affect energy.
And my hands are electromagnetic
as well as your body.
So I'm just going to trace up
your energy fields like this.
And now put your arm
up again and push up
with all your might.
And this time, I'm just
going to use one finger.
[CHUCKLES]
That's because it was
like I had a magnet.
It took energy out
of that pathway.
Now if I trace it forward,
it should bring it back.
We'll see.
Yes.
Now sometimes
when-- maybe you've
been pushing a lot in
your life and taking
on a whole lot of
things, your energy
has a tendency to run backwards.
Now I'm going to show you
something real interesting.
I want you just to
walk backwards, about
three more steps.
OK.
Now place your arm up again,
and I'm going use one finger.
You lose-- and you're doing
this with all your might, right?
[LAUGHS]
You're losing energy
as-- oh, gosh.
You walked backwards.
Walk forward and let
me see what happens.
You're doing some-- you're
caught in between, OK?
You're walking backwards,
you're losing energy.
You're walking forward,
Means that it's time to
take a little vacation.
Now I'm going to give
you a technique that
can turn that around.
Right here, underneath
your clavicle corners,
drop into a little
hole and massage that.
I like to cross my
hands because it
helps the energy to cross over
and take a really deep breath.
And at these points, they're
called Kidney 27 points, K-27,
and they're juncture points for
all the meridians in the body.
And they'll flip
the energy around
and make them go forward again.
So we're going to see if you
can both walk backwards and walk
forward, OK?
So you walk backwards and see
if you've still got your energy.
All right.
Now I pushed much
harder, didn't I?
We have to tell the television
audience that it really worked.
All right.
Now I'm going to
just look and see
if something else
that you might need.
I would like you to place
your hand right there
and hold your arm
real strong, OK?
You're nice and weak.
All right.
Now what I want you to do
is on both sides, just tap.
Breathe and tap.
OK, enough.
Put your hand right
back there and hold it
with all your might.
OK, I'm pushing
with all my might.
And what that does is that tends
to bring your vitality back
and stabilize it.
All right.
>> OK.
So what we did then, you said
that you needed to balance me,
and that's what we--
but that's individual.
That could have happened
to-- someone else
may have needed something
completely different.
>> Needed something
>> But now I'm going to
try not to hit my mic,
but we're going to do again
for the people who didn't get
to see it up close.
The K-27 is that
Kidney 27 point right
underneath the bone, where
it's like a little indented.
>> Yes.
>> And this is where you
would do the massage.
>> And there are three points
for massage, the K-27 meridian,
the thymus, and
the spleen points.
>> In the stress reduction class
that you talk a lot about is
also thumping the thymus.
>> The thymus gland.
In fact, I call
these three thumps
because if you thump here
and then thump there and then
thump what I just
showed you on your side,
all three together-- this
one gets the chemistry going.
This one makes your
immune system turn on,
and this one flips
the energies around
so they're going forward.
>> So that would be something
that we might incorporate
into our life, and
it's very easy.
>> So easy to do as you're
running out the door.
>> OK, so those three
areas, again, the K-27,
thumping the thymus, and
then just basically the--
>> And tapping
your spleen points.
>> OK.
>> They're called.
They're right in
between the ribs,
right on the side of your body.
>> All right, great.
OK, I like that.
Now there was something
else that we get to do,
that we get to talk about on
this show that, like you said,
you don't usually talk about
God all the time and so forth.
But we talk about balance
in mind, body, spirit.
And you did mention
that, in your work,
in working with people
and being intuitive,
there are the other
realms, OK, where
we do have spirit guardians.
Tell me a little bit about the
energies that you work with
and what you noticed
dealing with people.
>> Well, I've had a private
practice for 23 years.
And so I never go into any
session, any treatment,
knowing what's going to happen.
And I never plan on a spirit
guardian coming forth.
In fact, I go in just
to work on the energy.
But if an energy appears
or comes into the room
or I feel like I am being
told something of what to do,
and that's usually when
it happens, sometimes
when I feel like I'm stumped,
I can't figure this out.
Often, if I'm really in tune
with this person's energy
and the energy
surrounding us, then I
will feel sometimes like I'm
hearing exactly what to do.
Sometimes I will see it.
Sometimes I will
be told something
that makes no sense at all.
But I have learned to
pay attention and do it,
and it always works.
>> There is another
aspect, too, with that,
and you call it
protecting the healer.
And that's what I told you.
I'm empathetic, and so
sometimes it's hard for me
to be in an energy when somebody
is like ill or something.
So what do you do to
protect the healer?
>> Well, this is extremely
important because I am very
empathetic.
I'm somebody who merges
with everybody's energies.
So I have had to learn how
to not at all separate myself
from people because I've
actually learned how
to go ahead and allow that
energy to move through me,
but continue it on so
it doesn't stay stuck.
And when that happens, and
that's the best way for me,
then fresh new energy
comes through me, too.
It's like a circuitry occurs,
and I get healed in the session
as much as they do.
>> Wow.
Ooh.
>> So it's-- yes.
>> You also mentioned just
briefly past lifetimes are
a factor that sometimes
affect this lifetime.
>> Yes, yes, absolutely.
Often when I'm, for
instance, working
on perhaps cloacals or
grid work or chakras,
then at that very, very
deep level, sometimes
a story or images will
come up that have nothing
to do with their life.
And a long time ago, I
learned that if I said nothing
about it, then something
would stop in the energy flow.
It's like the intelligence
or the wisdom in their body
was allowing it to come forth,
so I needed to deal with it.
And so I do.
I speak of it.
And sometimes a person doesn't
believe in a past life.
>> Yes.
>> But it doesn't matter.
I will say something
like, well, you know,
you can use this as a metaphor.
Let's just not turn it off.
>> Well, Donna, you're
an absolute gift.
You really are.
And I love the book.
And if you would like to
be in touch with Donna,
and you would like to
know more about her
and where she will be presenting
her classes, just stay tuned.
And you know we always
love to hear from you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I have really enjoyed
both meeting Donna
and also reading the book.
It was absolutely fabulous.
It just brought more information
to me about my energy
and how I might keep
myself healthier
and how I might live in balance.
And this hopefully could
serve you well, too.
Until next time, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill.
May you be well,
happy, and peaceful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]